---
layout: post
title:  "R Markdown : Customer Sentiment Analysis"
date:   2021-04-11
excerpt: "This article uses R Language to showcase API interactions using Markdown"
image: "/images/CSA/CSA.jpeg"
---

<h2>Background</h2>
<p>My familiarity with R is new, roughly close to 2 years now. I have been exploring several use cases where I can leverage R as a preferred platform for data analytics compared to other tools I am familiar with. Few weeks back, I found a great use case, conducting <b>exploratory data analysis</b> on customer reviews for local Pizza Restaurants ! Around the globe, Industries are assigning customer sentiments based analytics projects to their team of data engineering and data science experts, using sources from several media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Zomato and Yelp. Through <b>REST APIs</b> one can extract data from web plaforms and perform meaningful analytics. BI pipelines leveraging API calls on web resources can help in tracking all customer reviews, and help isolate negative sentiments ; based on gathered results ,take action towards suitable resolution. Why analysis on Pizza Restaurants? This quote says it all :</p>
<hr />  
<p>
    <blockquote>Never sit around and wait for someone unless they’re delivering a <b>Pizza</b> ! &#128513; </blockquote>
</p>
<hr />

<h2>R Markdown</h2>

<p> 
In layman terms , if you want to save time and use less tags to code and get the same look and feel of a HTML document, utilize <b>R Markdown</b>. Certainly I can spin my reasoning on Markdown several ways technically, to tell anyone why <b>markdown</b> is better than HTML. If developers need quick an easy way to represent their data on web, then I highly recommend using this language.
</p>

<p> 
R Markdown specifically was designed focusing on <b>"seamless"</b> coding experience for developers. An quick yet effective approach for projecting data and visuals on web without using complex HTML coding. 2012 it was first introduced in <b>"knitr"</b> package.
</p>

<h3>Customer Sentiment Dashboard</h3>
<p>A great presentation feature that IDE tool <b>R Studio</b> offers is <i><b>Flexboard</b></i>. Using Flexboard authors can embed their R code chunks and interactive html widgets together into an appealing web based dashboard. See below Customer Senimtent Analysis flexboard I have created, it uses <b>Openstreet Map</b> for projecting metrics around customer reviews and ratings on local restaurants. Dashboard also uses interactive <b>Scatter Plot</b>. I personally liked user interaction that flexboard feature provides.</p>

<div style="overflow: hidden;position: relative; height:400px;"  >
      <iframe class="" rel="nofollow" style="height: 1000px; width: 1400px; transform: scale(0.394167) !important; transform-origin: 0px 0px;" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" 
      src="https://abhi2020-ds.github.io/flexboard_examples/"></iframe></div>

<h2>Code Summary</h2>
<h3>Steps</h3>
<ul>
    <li>Importing R Packages</li>
    <li>Yelp and Zomato API Call</li>
    <li>Storing json data into Dataframe and writing it into csv file</li>
    <li>Using visual packages (leaflet and highcharter) to relay extracted information</li>
</ul>
<h3> Importing R Packages </h3>
<p>Highlighting packages used for building this dashboard, starting with Flexboard for presentation, followed with tidyverse for data wrangling. httr, jsonlite, rlist and stringr are used for API and data transformation to add json data into datagrames. Visual packages such as highcharter, leaflet, DT and Shiny are used for outlining data. Last romato is a git package that is built for integrating with Zomato API. You can install these packages from CRAN repositories, or within terminal use <code>install.packages()</code></p>
<script src="https://gist.github.com/abhi2020-ds/4e1d4bb2c0a3a705af2d9863eea24530.js"></script>
<hr /> 

<div class="row">
    <div class="6u 12u$(small)">
        <h3>References</h3>
        <ul>
            <li><a href="https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/">R Markdown</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://support.rstudio.com/hc/en-us/articles/200486468-Authoring-R-Presentations">R Presentations</a></li>
        </ul>
    </div>
    </div>
